README.md, before:

Yii PHP Framework Version 2
===========================

Thank you for choosing Yii 2 - a modern PHP framework designed for professional Web development.

Yii 2 is a complete rewrite of its previous version Yii 1.1 which is one of the most popular PHP frameworks.
Yii 2 inherits the main spirit behind Yii for being simple, fast and highly extensible.
Yii 2 requires PHP 5.4 and embraces the best practices and protocols found in modern Web application development.


[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/yiisoft/yii2/v/stable.png)](https://packagist.org/packages/yiisoft/yii2)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/yiisoft/yii2/downloads.png)](https://packagist.org/packages/yiisoft/yii2)
[![Reference Status](https://www.versioneye.com/php/yiisoft:yii2/reference_badge.svg)](https://www.versioneye.com/php/yiisoft:yii2/references)
[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/yiisoft/yii2.png)](http://travis-ci.org/yiisoft/yii2)
[![Dependency Status](https://www.versioneye.com/php/yiisoft:yii2/dev-master/badge.png)](https://www.versioneye.com/php/yiisoft:yii2/dev-master)
[![HHVM Status](http://hhvm.h4cc.de/badge/yiisoft/yii2-dev.png)](http://hhvm.h4cc.de/package/yiisoft/yii2-dev)
[![Code Coverage](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/yiisoft/yii2/badges/coverage.png?s=31d80f1036099e9d6a3e4d7738f6b000b3c3d10e)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/yiisoft/yii2/)
[![Scrutinizer Quality Score](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/yiisoft/yii2/badges/quality-score.png?s=b1074a1ff6d0b214d54fa5ab7abbb90fc092471d)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/yiisoft/yii2/)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/yiisoft/yii2.png)](https://codeclimate.com/github/yiisoft/yii2)

DIRECTORY STRUCTURE
-------------------

```
build/               internally used build tools
docs/                documentation
framework/           core framework code
tests/               tests of the core framework code
```


REQUIREMENTS
------------

The minimum requirement by Yii is that your Web server supports PHP 5.4.


DOCUMENTATION
-------------

Yii 2.0 has a [Definitive Guide](http://www.yiiframework.com/doc-2.0/guide-index.html) and 
a [Class Reference](http://www.yiiframework.com/doc-2.0/index.html) which cover every detail of Yii.

There is also a [PDF version](http://stuff.cebe.cc/yii2-guide.pdf) of the Definitive Guide
and a [Definitive Guide Mirror](http://stuff.cebe.cc/yii2docs/) which is updated every 15 minutes.

For 1.1 users, you may refer to [Upgrading from Yii 1.1](docs/guide/intro-upgrade-from-v1.md)
to have a general idea of what has changed in 2.0.


HOW TO PARTICIPATE
------------------

**Your participation to Yii 2 development is very welcome!**

You may participate in the following ways:

- [Report an issue](docs/internals/report-an-issue.md)
- [Translate documentation or messages](docs/internals/translation-workflow.md)
- [Give us feedback or start a design discussion](http://www.yiiframework.com/forum/index.php/forum/42-general-discussions-for-yii-20/)
- [Contribute to the core code or fix bugs](docs/internals/git-workflow.md)

Commit message:

Added info about acknowledging Yii to README

README.md, after:

Yii PHP Framework Version 2
===========================

Thank you for choosing Yii 2 - a modern PHP framework designed for professional Web development.

Yii 2 is a complete rewrite of its previous version Yii 1.1 which is one of the most popular PHP frameworks.
Yii 2 inherits the main spirit behind Yii for being simple, fast and highly extensible.
Yii 2 requires PHP 5.4 and embraces the best practices and protocols found in modern Web application development.


[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/yiisoft/yii2/v/stable.png)](https://packagist.org/packages/yiisoft/yii2)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/yiisoft/yii2/downloads.png)](https://packagist.org/packages/yiisoft/yii2)
[![Reference Status](https://www.versioneye.com/php/yiisoft:yii2/reference_badge.svg)](https://www.versioneye.com/php/yiisoft:yii2/references)
[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/yiisoft/yii2.png)](http://travis-ci.org/yiisoft/yii2)
[![Dependency Status](https://www.versioneye.com/php/yiisoft:yii2/dev-master/badge.png)](https://www.versioneye.com/php/yiisoft:yii2/dev-master)
[![HHVM Status](http://hhvm.h4cc.de/badge/yiisoft/yii2-dev.png)](http://hhvm.h4cc.de/package/yiisoft/yii2-dev)
[![Code Coverage](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/yiisoft/yii2/badges/coverage.png?s=31d80f1036099e9d6a3e4d7738f6b000b3c3d10e)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/yiisoft/yii2/)
[![Scrutinizer Quality Score](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/yiisoft/yii2/badges/quality-score.png?s=b1074a1ff6d0b214d54fa5ab7abbb90fc092471d)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/yiisoft/yii2/)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/yiisoft/yii2.png)](https://codeclimate.com/github/yiisoft/yii2)

DIRECTORY STRUCTURE
-------------------

```
build/               internally used build tools
docs/                documentation
framework/           core framework code
tests/               tests of the core framework code
```


REQUIREMENTS
------------

The minimum requirement by Yii is that your Web server supports PHP 5.4.


DOCUMENTATION
-------------

Yii 2.0 has a [Definitive Guide](http://www.yiiframework.com/doc-2.0/guide-index.html) and 
a [Class Reference](http://www.yiiframework.com/doc-2.0/index.html) which cover every detail of Yii.

There is also a [PDF version](http://stuff.cebe.cc/yii2-guide.pdf) of the Definitive Guide
and a [Definitive Guide Mirror](http://stuff.cebe.cc/yii2docs/) which is updated every 15 minutes.

For 1.1 users, you may refer to [Upgrading from Yii 1.1](docs/guide/intro-upgrade-from-v1.md)
to have a general idea of what has changed in 2.0.


HOW TO PARTICIPATE
------------------

### Your participation to Yii 2 development is very welcome!

You may participate in the following ways:

- [Report an issue](docs/internals/report-an-issue.md)
- [Translate documentation or messages](docs/internals/translation-workflow.md)
- [Give us feedback or start a design discussion](http://www.yiiframework.com/forum/index.php/forum/42-general-discussions-for-yii-20/)
- [Contribute to the core code or fix bugs](docs/internals/git-workflow.md)

### Acknowledging or citing Yii 2

**In presentations**

If you are giving a presentation or talk featuring work that makes use of Yii 2 and would like to acknowledge it,
we suggest using [our logo](http://www.yiiframework.com/logo/) on your title slide.

**In projects**

If you are using Yii 2 as part of an OpenSource project, a way to acknowledge it is to
[use a special badge](URL https://img.shields.io/badge/Powered_by-Yii_Framework-green.svg?style=flat) in your README:    

![Yii2](https://img.shields.io/badge/Powered_by-Yii_Framework-green.svg?style=flat)

If your code is hosted at GitHub, you can place the following in your README.md file to get the badge:

```
[![Yii2](https://img.shields.io/badge/Powered_by-Yii_Framework-green.svg?style=flat)](http://www.yiiframework.com/)
```
